hey how's it going guys this is Dave -
Dee the razor core is a super exciting
product it seems like a really
well-executed
external graphic solution something that
a lot of people have been looking for
years myself included now they've had
some hiccups in production they've had
some delays and stuff but it's just
around the corner they're going to
release it soon but there's a couple
things I think you guys should be aware
of in case you're interested in
purchasing one hence this video so the
first thing is well what is the razor
core it's essentially a box that you can
put a desktop graphics card in you
connect this box up to a laptop using a
Thunderbolt 3 cable and then without
even rebooting your laptop can now use
that graphics card it's pretty cool
right now
razor isn't the first company to do an
external GPU there's been quite a few of
them over the years most of them haven't
been very popular or cost-effective the
one exception is the Alienware of
graphics name that came out last year it
works really well it cost $200 but it
uses a proprietary PCIe cable which
means it's not plug-and-play
and you need an Alienware laptop to make
that connection happen the Thunderbolt 3
connection on the razor core is a
universal port and that can push 40
gigabits per second so it should be
amazing right well there's more to the
story the technology that allows the
razor core to happen is something called
X connect by AMD so MD developed this
it's essentially driver level support
for external GPUs now it's almost like a
standard for other vendors to follow if
they want to support the whole external
GPU thing now ambi developed the X
Connect thing Intel developed
Thunderbolt 3 ports so that's the
connection that makes this whole thing
happen but the third part of the puzzle
is the software that ties everything
together and that was on razor so razor
had the gnarly job of making the razor
core talk with Razer laptops so on paper
Thunderbolt 3 can push 40 gigabits per
second a current generation desktop PCIe
connection can do 128 gigabytes per
second that's a lot more bandwidth than
the 40 gigabits per second that
Thunderbolt 3 has now there have been
tests that show that current graphics
cards don't need all of that bandwidth
they can't use it the Alienware amp is
limited to
two gigabits per second and it performs
really efficiently so if you have 40
like the Thunderbolt 3 pipeline you
seemingly have bandwidth to spare on the
back of the razor core there are ports
there's four USB 3s and even a jack and
a USB C that carries data and power to
the laptop so people are going to use
these ports they might have a mouse
connected a keyboard use the headset an
external driver - and Ethernet
connection and the more stuff you have
connected to the core the more bandwidth
you're using up in that pipeline and
once that video card renders the data it
can send it out to an external monitor
without using the Thunderbolt connection
but if you don't have a monitor and you
want to send it back to the laptop after
rendering you use up even more bandwidth
setting it back on the quad HD screen
needs an extra 5.3 gigabits per second
the 4k screen needs almost 12 gigabits
per second so what seemed like a roomy
pipeline before can get extremely packed
depending on what you have connected to
the poor but Razer obviously has some
really smart engineers working on this
they're going to deliver an external GPU
and it will work it just might have some
limitations because if you choke that
Thunderbolt connection too much the
video card performance will suffer and
if you're wondering how the Alienware
amp does it that cable has two pipelines
one for the PCIe and then a separate one
for USB so there's no competition for
bandwidth but you can't plug and play
you have to reboot it when you plug in
the amp the Razer core currently only
works with Windows 10 if you have a
MacBook and you want this kind of
connection for OS 10 you'll have to wait
at launch it'll support the Razer Blade
stealth the 2016 razor blade and the
skull canyon nook from Intel these all
meet the external graphic standards set
by AMD so all three of them are going to
work to get other laptops to support the
razor core vendors are going to need to
do some software development they need
BIOS extensions they need plug-and-play
support for the core I think most big
vendors like Dell Lenovo Asus MSI Acer
they'll all eventually support it they
just need some time to do it right now
in terms of video cards current and
future generation AMD and NVIDIA cards
will work there's already drivers from
both companies that support is
the razor core doesn't come cheap I was
hoping the enclosures would be 250 maybe
300 dollars but it's $500 without a
video card
there are currently coupons where if you
buy a razor system you can save $100 on
a core but the regular price 500 bucks
now if that's too pricey one of the
alternatives is an alienware set up it's
not a universal connection and it won't
be as thin or as light as a razor set up
but it's cheaper and it's still an
excellent option if you're looking for a
laptop that you can crank up gaming
performance externally the other option
I feel I should bring up is just to
build a mini ITX system it's obviously a
solution that's not for everyone if
you're looking at the razor corer
chances are you want something to plug
up to your laptop but just to kind of
plant the seed in your mind $500 for the
enclosure you could build a really good
ITX system for $500 before the video
card it won't be as small as the razor
core and I mean it won't be as portable
but it'll still play games really well
that's basically it hope you guys
learned a thing or two now as for the
technology on the hole it's really cool
I think it has a lot of promise it's new
I think it'll mature and I think when it
does the whole platform will explode and
I think will be awesome thumbs if you
like this video subs if you loved it
it's been nice see you guys next time